
Flipr Hackathon 7.0
Machine Learning
Indian Premier League 2020

The Indian Premier League (IPL) is seen as the glitzy high of the cricketing season, with its
daily share of short bursts of thrills stretched across the summer. Since its launch in 2008, the
IPL became a seasonal fix as inevitable as soaring temperatures and the reflexive craving for
ice creams. The Twenty20 tournament seemingly brooked no resistance while the purists
leant on the classical air that permeated Test cricket. Even in 2009 and 2014 when the Lok
Sabha elections clashed with the IPL’s schedule, the Board of Control for Cricket in India
solved the logistical nightmare. South Africa played host in the first instance while the United
Arab Emirates (UAE) conducted the initial set of matches in 2014. But 2020 has been a
difficult year for humankind with the relentless spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Since
March, sport with its social-gathering moorings had to pause: the Olympics was postponed
and Wimbledon cancelled. The IPL was rescheduled too from its original start-date of March
29, before a window opened up for the event to be held in the UAE. Saturday night’s
inaugural contest of the IPL’s 13th edition at Abu Dhabi’s Sheikh Zayed Stadium, that pitted
defending champion Mumbai Indians and last year’s runner-up Chennai Super Kings, dished
out a last-over climax with the latter stunning the former.
The lay-off from the game and the attendant rust was evident in the way the rivals fielded
while the artificial crowd sound infused into the live telecast, reflects these fraught times of
empty stadiums and bio-bubbles. Because of the constraints imposed by the virus and the
cancellation of domestic cricket in India for now, the IPL at the Emirates, has turned out to be
the season opener for the national players while also offering an opportunity for overseas
stars to have a biff in the park. Eight teams playing 60 matches in 53 days across Abu Dhabi,
Dubai and Sharjah, with a summit clash on November 10, will present its own set of
challenges. The organizers have set stringent protocols even as a few tested positive in the
lead-up to the championship. The players have to watch their health-parameters while
helping cricket find its feet, an endeavor that England did first with remarkable efficiency by
hosting the West Indies, Pakistan and Australia. It is a template worth emulating as fans
starved of action wait to catch live moving images of M.S. Dhoni, Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma,
Steve Smith, Kane Williamson, AB de Villiers and other icons. 
Problem Statement
Runs at top of the order, runs at the death, runs throughout the middle overs. Runs matter
everywhere and they are so important in the construction of a T20 inning. Unlike the rest of
the formats where you have 3-4 specialist batsmen to accumulate the bulk of runs, T20
cricket demands different specialist batsmen at each and every phase of the innings.
With the advent of franchise cricket and mainly IPL, teams have packed themselves with
suitable batting options to meet these demands. And hence the leading run-scorer of a team
always need not be an opener or a number three batsman. A batsman who bats lower down
the order can also end up as the leading scorer within a team, much like Rishabh Pant or
Andre Russell in the previous seasons.
Objective:
The objective of the problem statement is to predict Total runs of a player in IPL 2020. The
output file should contain only Player Name and the respective IPL 2020 for the test data.
There are 2 files provided:
1. Variable_Description.xlsx:
This file contains description of all the variables available in the dataset
2. Data.xlsx:
This contains train dataset on which model has to be trained, which contains parameters of IPL
2018 and total runs in the IPL 2019. It also contains test dataset, which contains parameters of
IPL 2019, using which you need to predict total runs in IPL 2020.
Competition Rules
• There should only be one submission per participant/team
• Privately sharing of code is not permitted. In case of plagiarism, the participant shall be
 disqualified
• Those attempting the problem should send one .csv/.xlsx file, containing Player Name and
Total Runs in IPL 2020
• The solution_sheet should also be attached along with the results
• Share all your files in this Google form link: https://forms.gle/WiNqHoxQEDTPVX9MA
